# Syslog

Rsyslog is a GPL-ed, enhanced syslogd. Among others, it offers support
for reliable Syslog over TCP, writing to MySQL databases, and fully
configurable output formats (including great timestamps). Rsyslog was
initiated by Rainer Gerhards, GroBrinderfeld.

The earlier world was using either one of the following

* The stock syslogd, e.g sysklogd
* Syslog-ng
* Another-solution

So basically, Rainer Gerhard’s club everything in another solution and
created a new Syslog called rsyslog.

## Syslog modules

### `imfile` module

The imfile module is an input module in rsyslog that allows you to
monitor log files and read new log messages as they are added to the
file. It is typically used to process application logs that are written
to a file instead of being sent directly to syslog.

When you configure rsyslog to use the imfile module, it reads each line
of the specified log file and passes it to the rsyslog message
processing engine. The message is then processed according to the rules
defined in your rsyslog configuration. You can define tags, severity
levels, and facilities for messages read from the file, as well as
specify output actions to forward the messages to a remote syslog server
or write them to a new log file.

The imfile module supports multiple options for reading log files,
including the ability to read from the end of the file, read only new
lines that are added to the file, and handle log file rotation without
losing messages. You can also specify a polling interval to control how
frequently rsyslog checks the file for new messages.

sample config

```
# Input module configuration
module(load="imfile" PollingInterval="10")

# Input definition
input(type="imfile"
      File="/var/log/example.log"
      Tag="example"
      StateFile="example-state"
      Severity="info"
      Facility="local7"
      ruleset="example-ruleset")
```

### `omfile` module

The omfile module is an output module in rsyslog that provides support
for writing log messages to local log files. It is typically used to
store log messages generated by local applications or services on the
same machine where rsyslog is running.

When you configure rsyslog to use the omfile module, it writes log
messages to a specified file or set of files on the local filesystem.
You can specify the format of the log messages using a template, and you
can use wildcards to define different log files for different types of
messages.

The omfile module supports a number of options for customizing the
behavior of log message generation, including the ability to specify the
file permissions and ownership of log files, as well as the maximum size
and number of log files that can be created. You can also define custom
templates for log messages to control the format and content of the
messages.

```
# Output module configuration
module(load="omfile")

# Output definition
action(type="omfile"
       file="/var/log/example.log"
       template="example-template")
```
